Suggested edits and minor updates from full review of the paper. (#347)
the-teachingRSE-project/competencies: competencies.md

They enable researchers to collect and process ever-increasing amounts of data,
simulate a wide range of physical phenomena across previously unexplored scales of the universe,
and discover previously inconceivably complex structures in nature and societies via \ac{ML}.

> This prevalence of computation in research means that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prevalence of computation and digitally aided data analysis in research means that
```

would have chosen different competencies, we will argue that this trifecta of skills
is exactly what is needed for modern, software-enabled research. -->

While this community paper is based on workshop discussions that were attended

> largely by Research Software Engineers (deRSE23 in Paderborn, un-deRSE23 in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
largely by RSEs (deRSE23 in Paderborn, un-deRSE23 in
```

> Jena and deRSE24 in Würzburg, Germany),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jena, and deRSE24 in Würzburg, Germany),
```

> Jena, and deRSE24 in Würzburg, Germany),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jena, and deRSE24 in Würzburg, all in Germany),
```

we believe that the competencies formulated here can offer far-reaching

> impact beyond the domain of RSE into adjacent aspects of research such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
impact beyond the domain of RSE into adjacent aspects of research, such as
```

> research data.

Reviewer 3: I think we have to work a bit harder, if we rewrite this part. The original meaning was, since RSEs do data, processing, and visualization, and science often does this, too, the competencies are important. And this fact has also  been recognised by the funders.

Reviewer 2: I see the same meaning in the rewritten part.
Maybe only remove the "For example", as this is really the main point, not an example.

> For example, this is especially important given that much research involves some amount of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is especially important given that much research involves some amount of
```

# Values {#sec:values}

> In addition to the values for good scientific practice [@dfg_gsp], RSEs should also adhere to
> the \ac{SE} Code of Ethics [@Gotterbarn1999] and their activities should be guided by ethical values.
> Central to the \ac{SE} Code of Ethics is the RSE's obligation to

Author: ```suggestion
It is important that the activities of an RSE are guided by ethical values.
In addition to the values for good scientific practice [@dfg_gsp], RSEs also adhere to
the \ac{SE} Code of Ethics [@Gotterbarn1999].
Central to that code is the RSE's obligation to
In addition to the values for good scientific practice
```

The epistemological status of computer modelling and simulation is still the subject of debate,
which ranges from the postulate of a new process of knowledge creation that has its own, unique, epistemology [@winsberg_sanctioning_1999]
to the perception that from a philosophy of science perspective, there is nothing really new [@frigg_philosophy_2009].
In any case, it is clear that a number of decisions in the construction of a simulation-model

> will have a decisive impact on the adequacy for purpose [@bokulich_data_2021] of the model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
will have a significant impact on the adequacy for purpose [@bokulich_data_2021] of the model.
```

Otherwise we have three repetitions of words stemming from decide in close succession

in that not every step of the process is directly observable.
The current trend of an increasing application of computationally irreducible systems, such as those based on artificial neural networks,
further exacerbates this inherent limitation of explainability.
An RSE usually takes a pivotal role in assessing this adequacy for purpose of a model
as well as in characterising and communicating the domain of its legitimate application
and its limits of interpretability.
This role, together with the enormous reliance on modelling and simulation of scientific results,
as well as real-world decision-making,
places a large responsibility on the RSE.
It is important that RSEs are aware of this responsibility and continuously improve their capabilities to live up to it.

Research software is also well on its way to being ever-present in data-driven research, in all research fields.
This can probably be most prominently seen by considering software used to analyse data, e.g. within experimental research.
It is not unusual for RSEs to support those more research data oriented efforts as well.

> Here, specifically, they closely interact with research data management
> professionals and practices by designing research software that is better able to
> adhere to the \ac{FAIR} principles for research data, but also to follow
> similar rules for research software (FAIR4RS [@FAIR4RS]).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here, specifically, they closely interact with research data management professionals
and practices by designing research software 
that is better able to adhere to the \ac{FAIR} principles for research data,
but also to follow similar rules for research software (FAIR4RS [@FAIR4RS]).
```

SemBr

and deal with tensions that might arise with researchers' desire for trouble-free sharing of data, thereby expecting openness about the research process,
versus the integrity expectations of the society towards \ac{IT} systems.
Handling personal data also has ramifications for information security considerations during the software development process.

> Data protection is a complex topic, so RSEs should be aware of when they may need to consult external expertise, for example when dealing with

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Data protection is a complex topic, so RSEs should be aware that they may need to consult external expertise, for example when dealing with
```

\newcommand{\skillsection}[1]{\hypertarget{skills-#1}{%
\subsubsection{\glsentrydesc{#1} (\texorpdfstring{\glsentrytext{#1}}{#1})}\label{skills-#1}}}

> RSEs are highly-skilled software engineers, in addition to having an

Reviewer 3: ah... I think here we switch meaning.....

Reviewer 4: Yes, the two sides of a coin problem again...

Reviewer: Yes: please do not change the "direction" here.

Reviewer 3: maybe leave it as it was...

> RSEs are highly-skilled software engineers, in addition to having an
> understanding of the research environment.

Author: Reverting this to the original text based on the meeting discussion.
```suggestion
Besides skilled researchers, RSEs are also competent software engineers.
```

and automate operations of the integration and release process. They can
provide working, scalable, and future-proof solutions in a professional context and with common
project and software management techniques, adapted to the needs of the research environment.

> Finally, as people who have often gained significant experience of research

Reviewer 3: here, too...

Reviewer 3: the other's like the new version better.

> Finally, as people who have often gained significant experience of research

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, as people who have often gained significant research experience
```

research this requires knowledge of \gls{RC}, \gls{USERS}, and also \gls{NEW},
in order to effectively interact with domain scientists. Today, an example is a
presence on social media. The other \gls{TEAM}-related aspect is the embedding
of recently-trained RSEs into the Research Software Engineering community,
sharing the same set of values and competencies.
We envision newcomers to the RSE field becoming part of a strong network of
RSEs, tool-related communities, and the classical domain communities,
making them more effective at supporting research. These networks are a lifelong
manifestation where RSEs work to provide an inclusive environment for their

> peers and provide opportunities for lifelong learning.

Reviewer 3: We have a second use of it around line 1429. and then we can discuss how we spell life-cycle....

Author: Re lifecycle (life cycle?), this was actually in my original notes that I made when reading through, but I decided this was going to result in a lot of changes and maybe it was better to leave it, so I decided to stick with this one instead! 🙂 

(Although if we do want to go down the life cycle route, I think it should probably be "lifecycle"!)

- Junior RSE: These are people who are in the earlier stages of their RSE career journey, but they should ideally have research experience of their own as well as the skills to contribute reliable and well-structured code to software projects.
- Senior RSE: They have gained experience, both concerning their software skills as well as in their research collaborations in potentially many different fields. They can set the standards in a software project.

> - Principal RSE: Their actual job description varies a lot. These may be RSE team leaders based in a professional services type role, or they may be professors or research group leaders based in a more academic-focused role. They are often the people responsible for bringing in the funding that supports new and sustains existing projects. Generally speaking, they do not need to be actively involved in the day-to-day technical tasks, but they should be able to guide projects from both a technical and a research perspective while providing an inclusive working space and in many cases, lead research or RSE teams.

Reviewer 2: Why this change?

Author: As discussed in the meeting, it's mentioned in a previous sentence in this paragraph that princpal RSEs may be team/group leaders so this is a repetition.

Table: Levels of research skills expected per RSE career stage. {#tbl:comp-lvls-res}

| Competency | Junior RSE                                                                                                                    | Senior RSE                                                                                                                            | Principal RSE                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---        | ----------                                                                                                                    | ----------                                                                                                                            | ----------                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | \gls{TEAM}       | Should be able to work in the team in order to effectively fulfil the given tasks. Should be able to learn from code review.  | Should be able to break down tasks into more easily digestible sub-tasks and review or guide work undertaken by less-experience team members.                                                             | Should be able to lead the team and set the respective direction.                                                                                                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
| \gls{TEAM}       | Should be able to work in the team in order to effectively fulfil the given tasks. Should be able to learn from code review.  | Should be able to break down tasks into more easily digestible sub-tasks and review or guide work undertaken by less-experienced team members.                                                             | Should be able to lead the team and set the respective direction.                                                                                                                   |
```

They need to be able to judge the suitability of the software (\gls{SWLC}) and follow the interactions between relevant projects (\gls{SWREPOS}).
They should be able to advise their students on the legal aspects of software production and distribution (\gls{SP}).
They should be able to contribute meaningfully to the steering decisions of the software in their field (\gls{USERS}).

> They are able to guide students and prepare and deliver full-length lectures (\gls{TEACH}).

Author: ```suggestion
They are able to guide students and prepare and deliver a full lecture course (\gls{TEACH}).
```

- **Competency:** The code assigned to the competency being considered, as defined in @sec:required-generic-skills, e.g. \gls{TEAM}.
- **Individual RSE (Locally-based):** A single person working on some

>   research software - often primarily a researcher, but learning and applying RSE skills with focus on their own research. Often time-constrained,

Author: Revert to original:
```suggestion
research software - often an RSE with focus on their own research. Often time-constrained,
```
